The newest one is actually 5th gen.
FWIW, I just made a post about having various problems with the 4th gen and 5th gen Dots. I went back to my 3rd gen Dot which has had zero problems. But, YMMV.
Do they still sell the 3rd gen Dot anywhere? Pretty sure they discontinued it.
I think Dot 4th and 5th gen have much better sound than the 3rd gen. The orb shape rather than flat disc probably.
Full Echoes, I would say it probably doesnt matter much tho, and I preferred the column shape to the globe.
Do you have the budget for an echo studio? Waaay better sounding for music than anything else in the echo line up.
I just picked up a new gen 2 Echo Plus . I cannot recommend it highly enough but that is not what you asked . If you have other gen 3 dots stick to them … if you are going all new the gen 4 will offer an upgrade in audio but not a big upgrade ( midrange mostly ) studio or older big speaker echo are the way. Size matters this is the way .
If you are not an audiophile saving money on gen3 and throwing in an echo sub here and there …. This is the way
You can get a good deal on a refurbished Echo Dot 5th gen. Sound quality is exponentially better than the 3rd gen Echo Dot. And yes, the Echo Studio is the bomb, but considerably more expensive as well.
Depends what you are looking for in an echo device. I hate those ball shaped devices, just don't fit my style and I don't play much music. I want low profiles ones. So to me, the third generation is a great buy. Never had a problem with the third generation dot.
The 3rd gen should work just fine for what you have in mind. The audio quality on the 4th/5th gen Dots is definitely better but the 3rd is just fine for things like background music, which I assume from your description is what you'll use them for.
Yes still a goood buy
I mean... Look at them... 🤷😜
Sound quality is noticeably better with the 4th gen.
You could probably get a point for point difference from any comparison website or even Amazon itself.
My two cents would be that given 4 year difference 2018 versus 2022 the sensitivity and the capability of the hardware would certainly be superior on the latter device.
Therefore a spec or features alone comparison may not speak to the performance difference.
I've just recently got a 4th gen and I can also vouch for what people are saying here. The sound quality is better but the mic is awful. I have to repeat myself, sometimes multiple times before it detects what I'm saying. And that can be when I'm within 8ft of the device and in a quiet room. It's garbage, in all honesty.
Also, don't know if this is a problem with my phone or with the echo device, when I open Spotify and try to cast music to the echo, it shows in the devices list as "unavailable". I either have to ask Alexa to play something and can then control it through the Spotify app, or if I have the laptop powered up the desktop app detects the echo. (Based on the latter I think the issue may be my phone or the app)
Music probably sounds better out of the new one
The sound on the 4th gen is muuuuuuch better!
I have a bunch of 3s and one 4. IMO the 4 is noticeably worse than the 3. It has a harder time hearing me and it doesn't handle multi room music as reliably. Sound seems equally good on both models.
I just snagged a reconditioned 3 for $12 on Woot and will be replacing my 4 with it.
4th has person detection if that’s a thing you care about.
I agree with others. Sound is better, mic is worse. It’s like the mic is more forward facing in one direction as opposed to omnidirectional.
one is stupidly large and doesn't mount well on walls
the other is cheaper
Gen 3 has an amazing mic. I heard the 4th Gen uses less mics or something so it might have a hard time hearing you
4th generation sound quality is awful
It's one louder, isn't it?
1
the 4th gen round Dot has a 3,5mm in and output (AFAIK)
edit: It's just the ball Echo, not a round Dot
the 3rd gen flat Dot only has output.
Sound is juch better on the 4th gen.
I didn't see it mentioned anywhere else, but the orb also has a digital clock display that was a major benefit for me. We have it in the bathroom and I can peak at the time when getting ready in the morning.
1
are you
blind?
They aren’t improving either.
For point -2 you might need to edit your widgets? That would the closest I could imagine the display unit had that you saw.
Don’t get too comfortable- Amazon will mess with the UI several times a year so you never keep on top of it.
All these devices encourage their own ecosystems- sadly amazons is the worst (or maybe the consumerism focus is what makes it worse)
I have over 20 devices and will be changing platforms as they age out
These are designed for "Ad delivery" nowadays. Would not suggest any of the echo shows.
I have quite a few and am replacing with the non display versions slowly as I still want the voice commands for my HA system.. Home Assistant is making great strides in dev their own voice system built in this last year.. "Year Of the Voice"
There may be a way to get what you want, but Amazon's instructions aren't very clear.
I wanted my pictures and weather to be the splash screen, but I couldn't figure out how to do it. I got discouraged and gave up.
A few days latter, I gave the screen a thurough cleaning. I noticed that the screen kept changing as I rubbed the silk cloth back and forth, but I didn't mind it. When I was done, the splash screen had changed the way I wanted it. Go figure.
It's not a tablet, stop expecting tablet abilities.
I think the Web browser is your best way of getting something out of it. I got the 2nd gen and use it for YouTube ambience. The main issue I had with it is that it doesn't do anything without Internet so not a great mp3 alarm clock.
Sold out.
Like Elongated_Moisture said, sold out, but...
Thanks for sharing! It's appreciated!
This morning I googled "Echo Show 10" and woot came up with one for $69.99.
You bet I bought it.
Sold Out!
I actually went back to older devices because of all the sporadically functioning home control crap I have had from the new ones. I think the newer Gen devices try to do more local processing and half the time take two or three tries to respond to commands. Went back to all older devices and the problems went away again.
They had the Echo Flex last month and I bought two -- but a couple of weeks later Woot cancelled the sale.
IMO the older products are far superior to some of the newer stuff. My dot picks my voice up from miles away.. same for echo auto.. gen one is much better then 2
I have the original and two 3rd gens. The original outperforms the others. I wouldn’t waste my time or money upgrading unless you have equipment failure.
Gen 3 is by far the best of all unless you are upgrading to a Studio or an Echo ( Just Echo ). The Pop is only useful as an add on to an already multi speaker set up.. The extender capabilities it's only if you already own an eero router latest Gen.
it can be frustrating if you use the screen for the other features available because of sponsored ads and such. New content is added all the time without notice. I ended up dumping two of my three shows because of it. I kept one because of ring doorbell and when I find a replacement, it will be gone too.
I feel like it is only going to get worse. If you don't mind the unwanted content then go for it because nobody watches their show all the time so they will miss most of it.
We had a Show 8 in our kitchen. Decided to go for Echo Show 15. Built in FireTV and only feels "big" for a couple hours. Black Friday deal has the10 and the 15 at the same price, but go for the remote with the 15.
Thanks for that link, unfortunately amazon.ca won't deliver this item to my address. Hopefully, we get a echo show 15 deal for Black Friday or cyber Monday.
What did you end up going for?
Is it just the 10 that can move with your movements ?
I use the remote with my Echos that look like a hockey puck and the ones that look like a puck with cloth around the outside. Sorry not sure of the generation of them.
I've found replacements on eBay too if you need a spare.
Cheers. I’ve got the remote (absolute bargain on Vinted) and did pick up a 2nd gen Echo Plus for £20 unfortunately the seller is now ghosting me so looking at a 3rd Gen Echo. Specifically looking for the ‘line in’